---
layout: post
title: "Truly Doing"
date: 2025-03-20
permalink: /true
---

I'm vaguely annoyed at a general misunderstanding of when something is worth Truly Doing in its True Form.


For instance, when making a joke about an event in your life. There's a temptation to lie here and exaggerate your courage or prankiness factor, e.g. “and then I pretended to be a security guard when he asked me what I was doing here” or “I actually emailed the guy!” or “the best part is when I put the pun in the final version of the presentation!”


This is the False Form of the joke: it's like a hilarious work of fiction, which is funny because it's understood that disbelief should be suspended long enough to believe in the True Form of the joke.


So the reason humor works in the first place is a parasitic relationship with True Form.


If you encounter a humorous arrangement of street signs and human behavior, or notice how the situation you’re in might be problematic but is also profoundly hilarious when seen from a cosmic angle, you're experiencing True Form humor. This is where it peaks. This is the platonic ideal, only it's not an ideal and everything else is a sad sublunar shadow.


And when you have the option to actually do the funny thing instead of pretending you did it or writing a story about someone else doing it, and you don't take that option, you leave everyone else a little more bereft of True Form Humor.


The same logic applies to Outlier Opinions. Or Impressive Actions. Or Making Decisions. Or Making Cool Shit. There's always the True Form of doing things that's actually available in your repertoire of actions, but mostly you will fuck it up and poison the Commons with your replicas.
