---
layout: post
title: "Dignity in vanilla reality"
date: 2025-09-25
permalink: /vanilla
---



## Dignity

Were magic to exist, [it wouldn’t be called magic](https://www.lesswrong.com/posts/iiWiHgtQekWNnmE6Q/if-you-demand-magic-magic-won-t-help), and if you found yourself wishing magic existed *because* our reality is too mundane, you wouldn’t even find magic interesting. The price to pay for enjoying reality is admitting that it is attainable, vanilla, default. It’s coming to terms with the fact that there *is no* “great beyond” wardrobe, mirror or portal which leads to some structure of reality so fundamentally different that you (magically) wouldn’t get bored with that one. This is the sacrifice required of you for Earthbase to become interesting again. (If you haven’t realized this yet, I’d recommend whipping out [the litany of Tarksi](https://www.lesswrong.com/w/litany-of-tarski).[^1]

The 21st century is full of magic, after all; [a single minivan](https://gwern.net/blog/2022/fastest-human) lets you experience more thrill-from-speed than literally any human before could’ve possibly experienced. Do we not, then, ride dragons? But alas, if you admitted to having dragons, would you not be pining for a meta-dragon instead?

Assuredly the lesson here is not that one must become some sort of Tibetan monk who so decorrelates his desires with change-in-the-atoms-of-reality that he wouldn’t even *flinch* in the face of a global pandemic or rogue superintelligent AI. (Because, you see, to wish for reality to be otherwise is a form of wishing for magic; and it is the very act of *wishing for magic* which is at the root of his pain, and not the *specific* pain of coughing-up-blood…)

There is a difference between wishing-for-magic and building-the-magic-yourself. If you take tuberculosis in stride, [wisely](https://www.lesswrong.com/posts/jeyvzALDbjdjjv5RW/pretending-to-be-wise) telling everyone that one must accept the mundanity and horror of reality because to wish otherwise is the source of all pain, you may end up doing *nothing* about the coughing-up-blood part of reality. And surely, wishes-for-magic being equal, the superior reality is one in which humans don’t die from coughing up blood!

So then must humans both restrain from wistfully sighing at the lack of magic in the world (because the world does not, in fact, contain magic) and *also* refrain from coughing up their lungs and constructing [elaborate arguments](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Candide) for why this is good, actually? Can we fit both the thought “reality is vanilla and you should take solace in it” *and* the thought “we should change reality” in the same mind? Surely the superior reality is one in which humans don’t grow bored flying around on their hang-gliders but *ALSO* design bio-engineered dragons…

## Do not wish in isolation

A wish which is not immediately followed by the crinkling sound of a pulled sleeve is not a wish worth making. What time have we, in our finite and distracted lives, to contentedly sigh at things which will never come? What better things have we to do, but make our reality more interesting by *ourselves*? What good does it do us, to complain about our terrible [mystery-bereft world](https://www.lesswrong.com/posts/L22jhyY9ocXQNLqyE/science-as-curiosity-stopper) and merely wallow in it?

It’s simply not *dignified* to lay there, you, a sovereign human being with a thinking brain and time on your hands, and not [think of a solution to your problems](https://croissanthology.com/solutionism) yourself. The thought “I wish there were dragons” ought to be immediately followed by the thought “perhaps I should go hang-gliding” *or* the thought “I’m going to found a startup intending to bioengineer dragons”.[^2] To think elsewise would be a shameful blot on your birthright as a sapient being.

## Similar links

* [Soon, multiple children will acausally extort me ](https://croissanthology.substack.com/p/soon-multiple-children-will-acausally)

[^1]: In this case chanting aloud:  

    “If I would be happier without wishing for magic,
    I desire to no longer wish for magic;

    If I would be happier wishing for magic,
    I desire to wish for magic;

     Let me not become attached to wishes I may not want.”


    Or:

    “If reality is mundane, vanilla, default, I desire to believe reality is mundane, vanilla, default;

    If reality is not mundane, vanilla, default, I desire to believe reality is not mundane, vanilla, default;

    Let me not become attached to beliefs I may not want.”

     The point is to admire the richness and beauty in the infinitely-layered [way-more-detailed-than-you-think](https://archive.is/qB2hZ) mundane fact of reality, not artificially inflating reality’s merits through e.g. some kind of belief in a Santa Claus isomorph. So while “reality is mundane, vanilla, default”  may appear like some kind of heresy, a strike at our world, I mean exactly the opposite. I suspect this way of approaching everything is far healthier and more enjoyable than those who would say, defensively, “but reality *is* full of magic!” and even occasionally lie to their kids that way.

    One can find the true meaning of Christmas [elsewhere than Santa Claus, of course.](https://www.lesswrong.com/posts/erGipespbbzdG5zYb/the-third-alternative). I'm even told it used to be found in "Jesus". Culture changes. 

[^2]: Of course, instrumental convergence being what it is, this specific startup would probably not be your best move, if bio-engineered dragons were truly what you craved. One can [backchain from global threats](v) and come to the conclusion that your dragons would never see the light of day if you were to, say, die in a few years. There is a hierarchy of priorities, and you have little power to dictate what it looks like. But I see nothing wrong with the idea of being motivated by the future in the name of bio-engineered dragons only; and myself, am intrigued enough by the idea that I would end up being on the team that makes them if no-one besides us will pull their sleeves up and *get it done*.
